#summary Specifics of LLNL configure and testing

= Introduction =

Rico has (and Andrew should have) accounts on LLNL machines: ATLAS, ZEUS, YANA.
Here we describe the specifics of LLNL configure and testing. 

= Details =

According to https://computing.llnl.gov/?set=resources&page=OCF_resources ATLAS, ZEUS, YANA all are essentially the same hardware (dual core AMD opteron Proc 8216) with 64 bit memory addressing. Each node has 8 CPUs and 16 GB of RAM (32 GB for yana60-79). They all run CHAOS linux which is the LLNL version of redhat. 

 * ATLAS     1152 nodes, high speed interconnect
 * ZEUS      288 nodes, high speed interconnect

YANA is not a cluster as it has no interconnect between 80 nodes. 32 GB for yana60-79, 16 GB for all other notes. Jobs are limited to a single node because there is no interconnect.

Here is a typical msub script for a batch job (msub tst3.sh)

<pre>
#!/bin/csh
#MSUB -l nodes=8
#MSUB -l walltime=25:00
#MSUB -q pbatch
#MSUB -m be
#MSUB -V
#MSUB -o tst3.out
#MSUB -A asccasc
##### These are shell commands
date
srun -n64  ./ij -lobpcg -n 150 150 150 -pcgitr 0 -vrand 20 -seed 1
echo 'Done'
</pre>

= Configuring and Compiling =
The HYPRE release hypre-2.6.0b was configured and compiled  on the LLNL machines ATLAS, ZEUS and YANA. They all run standard LINUX so the same install and compile works on all the machines. First download the compressed files and uncompress them according to http://code.google.com/p/blopex/wiki/HypreInstallLinux.
 

{{{
$ ./configure
}}}